We began testing by separately assembling our circuits, one for the ultrasonic sensor and one for the vibrational motor. 
The ultrasonic sensor (HC-SR04) was connected to a breadboard. Using four wires, we connected the sensor to the Arduino. 
For initial tests, the Arduino’s power supply came from a USB Type A/B port connected to a PC. The ultrasonic sensor has 
four pins: VCC, TRIG, ECHO, and GND. TRIG is the trigger input pin, ECHO is the echo output pin, VCC powers the sensor, 
and GND is the common ground. Because VCC is the terminal that powers the sensor, it will be connected to the 5V terminal 
of the Arduino which will supply it with direct power. TRIG will be connected to Pin D11, and ECHO will be connected to 
Pin D10 on the Arduino. Finally,  GND will be connected to a GND channel on the Arduino. Our circuit works by utilizing 
Pulse Width Modulation, PWM, to send out and receive pulse signals. For that reason, the TRIG and ECHO pins on the 
ultrasonic sensors are connected to Pins 10 and 11, which are both digital I/O channels where PWM output is possible. The 
image of the circuit diagram illustrates the pin setup (Fig ?).The sensor works by emitting a sound wave from the ultrasound 
transmitter (TRIG pin) at a high-frequency, inaudible to human ears. If there is an object within the sensor's range, the 
sound wave will hit it and return to the module. This time, the sound wave is being read by the ultrasonic receiver 
(ECHO pin) which receives the reflected sound, the echo. The image of the ultrasonic sensor illustrates how the sound wave 
travels when it hits an object. Distance can be found using the equation:
D=(St)/2 
Where D is the distance to the object, S is the speed of sound, and t is the time between transmission and reception of the 
sound wave. In this way, the sensor, along with code, can calculate distance, which will be converted to electrical signal, 
causing the motor to vibrate.

The second circuit is the vibrational motor circuit. This circuit has more components. One end of the vibration motor 
(polarity can be disregarded) will get a direct power supply from the 3.3V pin of the Arduino, this will allow it to vibrate 
strongly. In parallel with the motor will be a diode that is reverse-biased. This serves to act as a surge protector for 
the arduino as the motor produces voltage spikes as it rotates. Without the diode, the voltage surges could damage the Arduino. 
The capacitor, also in parallel with the motor, absorbs these voltage spikes. A transistor is placed in series with the motor, 
which provides it with current amplification as the Arduino provides a relatively weak power supply. Then, the motor is able 
to run more powerfully, allowing for more range of vibration depending on how close to an object the sensor is. A 1 K ohm 
resistor is placed in series with the transistor so not too much current is being supplied to the motor. This end of the 
circuit is connected to the D3 pin of the Arduino, which is a channel that allows PWM. This digital pen will be set to output
